Tutorials for Pod Security Admission (#30422)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tutorials/security/cluster-level-pss.md

---

> title: Applying Pod Security Standards at Cluster level

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Applying Pod Security Standards at the cluster level
```

content_type: tutorial
weight: 10
---

{{% alert title="Note" %}}
This tutorial applies only for new clusters.
{{% /alert %}}

> Since v1.23, Pod Security admission (PSA) is enabled by default as it [graduated
> to beta](blog/_posts/2021-12-15-pod-security-admission-beta.md). In this 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pod Security admission (PSA) is enabled by default in v1.23 and later, as it [graduated
to beta](/blog/2021/12/15/pod-security-admission-beta/). In this 
```

> tutorial, we will enforce `baseline` Pod Security Standard, at a cluster level.

Author: @jimangel / @lachie83 can you take a look at the call out for the blog post here and add your comments / suggestions?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since v1.23, Pod Security Admission (PSA) is enabled by default as it [graduated
to beta](blog/_posts/2021-12-15-pod-security-admission-beta.md). Pod Security Admission
is an admission controller that applies Pod Security Standards when pods are created.

This tutorial shows you how to enforce the `baseline` Pod Security Standard at the cluster level.
```

Reviewer: One more sentence about the difference between cluster and namespace level. Is it that all namespaces get the same treatment? Link from here to the Namespace tutorial so users can immediately jump to it too.

Author: done

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

Install the following on your workstation:

- [KinD](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/#installation)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)

> # Finding the right Pod Security Standard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Choose the right Pod Security Standard to apply
```

> As of
> v1.23, [Pod Security Admission](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/)
> allows usage of
> built-in [Pod Security Standards](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/)
> that can be set in three different modes: `enforce`, `audit`, `warn`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Pod Security Admission](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/)
lets you apply built-in [Pod Security Standards](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/)
with the following modes: `enforce`, `audit`, and `warn`.
```

> Following steps allows gathering information about which Pod Security Standards
> will be most appropriate to apply:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To gather information that helps you to choose the Pod Security Standards
that are most appropriate for your configuration, do the following:
```

> 1. Create a cluster without any pod security standard applied:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a cluster with no Pod Security Standards applied:
```

>     ```
>     $ kind create cluster --name psa-wo-cluster-pss --image kindest/node:latest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```shell
    kind create cluster --name psa-wo-cluster-pss --image kindest/node:latest
    ```
```

>     Creating cluster "psa-wo-cluster-pss" ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The output is similar to this:
    ```
    Creating cluster "psa-wo-cluster-pss" ...
```

Basically, separate output from the command to run.

    ✓ Ensuring node image (kindest/node:latest) 🖼
    ✓ Preparing nodes 📦  
    ✓ Writing configuration 📜
    ✓ Starting control-plane 🕹️
    ✓ Installing CNI 🔌
    ✓ Installing StorageClass 💾
    Set kubectl context to "kind-psa-wo-cluster-pss"
    You can now use your cluster with:
    
    kubectl cluster-info --context kind-psa-wo-cluster-pss
    
    Thanks for using kind! 😊
    
    ```

> 2. Switch kubectl context to point it to this new cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set the kubectl context to the new cluster:
```

>     ```
>     $ kubectl cluster-info --context kind-psa-wo-cluster-pss

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```shell
    kubectl cluster-info --context kind-psa-wo-cluster-pss
    ```
```

>     Kubernetes control plane is running at https://127.0.0.1:61350

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output is similar to this:

    ```
     Kubernetes control plane is running at https://127.0.0.1:61350

```

Separate output from commands

    CoreDNS is running at https://127.0.0.1:61350/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/kube-dns:dns/proxy
    
    To further debug and diagnose cluster problems, use 'kubectl cluster-info dump'.
    ```

> 3. Let's look at existing namespaces in the cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Get a list of namespaces in the cluster:
```

>     ```

Reviewer: Separate output from command (follow the same style as previous comments)

Author: done

    $ kubectl get ns   
    NAME                 STATUS   AGE
    default              Active   9m30s
    kube-node-lease      Active   9m32s
    kube-public          Active   9m32s
    kube-system          Active   9m32s
    local-path-storage   Active   9m26s
    ```

> 4. Use `--dry-run=server` to understand what happens when different pod security
>    standard are applied:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use `--dry-run=server` to understand what happens when different Pod Security Standards
    are applied:
```

>     ```

Reviewer: Separate output from commands

Author: done

    $ kubectl label --dry-run=server --overwrite ns --all \                    
    pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce=privileged
    namespace/default labeled
    namespace/kube-node-lease labeled
    namespace/kube-public labeled
    namespace/kube-system labeled
    namespace/local-path-storage labeled
    
    

>     $ kubectl label --dry-run=server --overwrite ns --all \

Reviewer: Separate output from commands

Author: done

    pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce=baseline
    namespace/default labeled
    namespace/kube-node-lease labeled
    namespace/kube-public labeled
    Warning: existing pods in namespace "kube-system" violate the new PodSecurity enforce level "baseline:latest"
    Warning: etcd-psa-wo-cluster-pss-control-plane (and 3 other pods): host namespaces, hostPath volumes
    Warning: kindnet-vzj42: non-default capabilities, host namespaces, hostPath volumes
    Warning: kube-proxy-m6hwf: host namespaces, hostPath volumes, privileged
    namespace/kube-system labeled
    namespace/local-path-storage labeled
    
    

>     $ kubectl label --dry-run=server --overwrite ns --all \

Reviewer: Separate output from commands

Author: done

    Warning: coredns-7bb9c7b568-hsptc (and 1 other pod): unrestricted capabilities, runAsNonRoot != true, seccompProfile
    Warning: etcd-psa-wo-cluster-pss-control-plane (and 3 other pods): host namespaces, hostPath volumes, allowPrivilegeEscalation != false, unrestricted capabilities, restricted volume types, runAsNonRoot != true
    Warning: kindnet-vzj42: non-default capabilities, host namespaces, hostPath volumes, allowPrivilegeEscalation != false, unrestricted capabilities, restricted volume types, runAsNonRoot != true, seccompProfile
    Warning: kube-proxy-m6hwf: host namespaces, hostPath volumes, privileged, allowPrivilegeEscalation != false, unrestricted capabilities, restricted volume types, runAsNonRoot != true, seccompProfile
    namespace/kube-system labeled
    Warning: existing pods in namespace "local-path-storage" violate the new PodSecurity enforce level "restricted:latest"
    Warning: local-path-provisioner-d6d9f7ffc-lw9lh: allowPrivilegeEscalation != false, unrestricted capabilities, runAsNonRoot != true, seccompProfile
    namespace/local-path-storage labeled
    ```

> It seems like `privileged` Pod Security Standard when applied, shows no warnings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the previous output, you'll notice that applying the `privileged` Pod Security Standard shows no warnings
```

for any namespaces. However, `baseline` and `restricted` standards both have

> more warnings specifically on `kube-system` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
warnings, specifically in the `kube-system` namespace.
```

> # Setting modes, versions and standards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set modes, versions and standards
```

> For the purposes of this tutorial, `baseline` standard will be `enforced` as per
> `latest` version whereas `restricted` standard will be applied in
> `warn` and `audit` mode. Baseline Pod Security Standard provides a convenient
> middle ground that allows keeping the exemption list short and prevents known
> privilege escalations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you apply the following Pod Security Standards to the `latest` version:

  * `baseline` standard in `enforce` mode.
  * `restricted` standard in `warn` and `audit` mode.

The `baseline` Pod Security Standard provides a convenient
middle ground that allows keeping the exemption list short and prevents known
privilege escalations.
```

PS I'm not super clear on what `latest` version means. Latest version of what?

> However, to prevent pods from failing in `kube-system`, this namespace will be
> exempt from the cluster level Pod Security Standards applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, to prevent pods from failing in `kube-system`, you'll exempt the namespace
from having Pod Security Standards applied.
```

> _Notes_:
> 
> 1. Based on risk posture applied to a cluster, a more strict Pod Security
>    Standard like `restricted` could be a better choice.
> 2. This exemption for `kube-system` namespace, allows pods to run as
>    `privileged` in this namespace. So, it is recommended to apply strict RBAC
>    policies that limit access to `kube-system` following least privilege
>    principle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you implement Pod Security Admission in your own environment, consider the
following:

1. Based on the risk posture applied to a cluster, a stricter Pod Security
   Standard like `restricted` might be a better choice.
1. Exempting the `kube-system` namespace allows pods to run as
   `privileged` in this namespace. We recommend that you apply strict RBAC
   policies that limit access to `kube-system`, following the principle of least
   privilege.
```

> Let's create a configuration file that can be consumed by built-in Pod Security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a configuration file that can be consumed by the Pod Security
```

Admission Controller to implement these Pod Security Standards:

```

> $ mkdir -p /tmp/pss
> $ cat <<EOF > /tmp/pss/cluster-level-pss.yaml 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mkdir -p /tmp/pss
cat <<EOF > /tmp/pss/cluster-level-pss.yaml 
```

apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1
kind: AdmissionConfiguration
plugins:
- name: PodSecurity
  configuration:
    apiVersion: pod-security.admission.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: PodSecurityConfiguration
    defaults:
      enforce: "baseline"
      enforce-version: "latest"
      audit: "restricted"
      audit-version: "latest"
      warn: "restricted"
      warn-version: "latest"
    exemptions:
      usernames: []
      runtimeClasses: []
      namespaces: [kube-system]
EOF
```

> # Configure the API server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Let's configure API server to consume this file during cluster creation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Configure the API server to consume this file during cluster creation:
```

```

> $ cat <<EOF > /tmp/pss/cluster-config.yaml 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cat <<EOF > /tmp/pss/cluster-config.yaml 
```

kind: Cluster
apiVersion: kind.x-k8s.io/v1alpha4
nodes:
- role: control-plane
  kubeadmConfigPatches:
  - |
    kind: ClusterConfiguration
    apiServer:
        extraArgs:
          admission-control-config-file: /etc/config/cluster-level-pss.yaml
        extraVolumes:
          - name: accf
            hostPath: /etc/config
            mountPath: /etc/config
            readOnly: false
            pathType: "DirectoryOrCreate"
  extraMounts:
  - hostPath: /tmp/pss
    containerPath: /etc/config
    # optional: if set, the mount is read-only.
    # default false
    readOnly: false
    # optional: if set, the mount needs SELinux relabeling.
    # default false
    selinuxRelabel: false
    # optional: set propagation mode (None, HostToContainer or Bidirectional)
    # see https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#mount-propagation
    # default None
    propagation: None
EOF
```

> _Note_: Please ensure that when using Docker Desktop with KinD, the `/tmp`
> directory is added as a Shared Directory under
> `Preferences -> Resources -> File Sharing` (as seen on Docker Desktop for Mac)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<note>}}
If you use Docker Desktop with KinD, the `/tmp`
directory is added as a Shared Directory under
**Preferences > Resources > File Sharing** on Mac OS.
{{</note>}}
```

> # Create cluster with Pod Security Standards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Now we are ready to create a cluster that consumes these pod security standards
> configured with pod security admission controller:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a cluster that uses Pod Security Admission to apply
   these Pod Security Standards:
```

```

> $ kind create cluster --name psa-with-cluster-pss --image kindest/node:latest --config /tmp/pss/cluster-config.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kind create cluster --name psa-with-cluster-pss --image kindest/node:latest --config /tmp/pss/cluster-config.yaml
```

Separate the output from the command

Creating cluster "psa-with-cluster-pss" ...
 ✓ Ensuring node image (kindest/node:latest) 🖼 
 ✓ Preparing nodes 📦  
 ✓ Writing configuration 📜 
 ✓ Starting control-plane 🕹️ 
 ✓ Installing CNI 🔌 
 ✓ Installing StorageClass 💾 
Set kubectl context to "kind-psa-with-cluster-pss"
You can now use your cluster with:

kubectl cluster-info --context kind-psa-with-cluster-pss

Have a question, bug, or feature request? Let us know! https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/#community 🙂

$ kubectl cluster-info --context kind-psa-with-cluster-pss
Kubernetes control plane is running at https://127.0.0.1:63855
CoreDNS is running at https://127.0.0.1:63855/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/kube-dns:dns/proxy

To further debug and diagnose cluster problems, use 'kubectl cluster-info dump'.
```

> # Create pod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Creating a pod with minimal configuration in default namespace should now be
> successful with warnings for `restricted` pod security standards:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a Pod with minimal configuration in the default namespace:
```

Would this not have been possible before? We want to at least say what would be different in the original, non-PSA cluster.

```

> $ cat <<EOF > /tmp/pss/nginx-pod.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cat <<EOF > /tmp/pss/nginx-pod.yaml
```

apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
spec:
  containers:
    - image: nginx
      name: nginx
      ports:
        - containerPort: 80
EOF

> $ kubectl apply -f /tmp/pss/nginx-pod.yaml

Reviewer: Different command - new step called "Apply the configuration to your cluster:"

Author: Done

> Warning: would violate PodSecurity "restricted:latest": allowPrivilegeEscalation != false (container "nginx" must set securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation=false), unrestricted capabilities (container "nginx" must set securityContext.capabilities.drop=["ALL"]), runAsNonRoot != true (pod or container "nginx" must set securityContext.runAsNonRoot=true), seccompProfile (pod or container "nginx" must set securityContext.seccompProfile.type to "RuntimeDefault" or "Localhost")

Reviewer: Separate output from command

Author: Done

pod/nginx created
```

> # Clean up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Clean up
```

Run `kind delete cluster -name psa-with-cluster-pss` and 

> `kind delete cluster -name psa-wo-cluster-pss` to delete the clusters we 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`kind delete cluster -name psa-wo-cluster-pss` to delete the clusters you 
```

created.

> # Bringing it all together

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Bringing it all together
```

Running the commands in this
[gist](https://gist.github.com/PushkarJ/9f7a0045f4bec31097bdd1e9db0f2f6e)
that were discussed in this tutorial will do all these steps in one go:

1. Create a Pod Security Standards based cluster level Configuration
2. Create a file to let API server consumes this configuration
3. Create a cluster that creates an API server with this configuration
4. Set kubectl context to this new cluster
5. Create a minimal pod yaml file
6. Apply this file to create a Pod in the new cluster

> 

Reviewer: Add a ## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}} 

and a link to:

Pod Security Admission (/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/)
Pod Security Standards (/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/)
Applying Pod Security Standards at the namespace level (/docs/tutorials/security/ns-level-pss/)

Author: done

---

> title: Applying Pod Security Standards at the cluster level

Reviewer 2: nit (page titles are title case)
```suggestion
title: Apply Pod Security Standards at the Cluster Level
```

content_type: tutorial

> weight: 10

Reviewer 2: nit: both articles have the same weight, is that intended?

Author: Yes

---

{{% alert title="Note" %}}
This tutorial applies only for new clusters.
{{% /alert %}}

> Pod Security admission (PSA) is enabled by default in v1.23 and later, as it [graduated
> to beta](/blog/2021/12/15/pod-security-admission-beta/). Pod Security Admission

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/30502 has the article due for publication on 2021-12-09

```suggestion
Pod Security admission (PSA) is enabled by default in v1.23 and later, as it has
[graduated to beta](/blog/2021/12/09/pod-security-admission-beta/).
Pod Security 
```

> is an admission controller that applies Pod Security Standards when pods are 

Reviewer 2: nit: ```suggestion
is an admission controller that carries out checks against the Kubernetes
[Pod Security Standards](docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/) when new pods are
```

created. This tutorial shows you how to enforce the `baseline` Pod Security 
Standard at the cluster level which applies a standard configuration 
to all namespaces in a cluster.

> For applying pod security standards one namespace at a time, please [follow this
> tutorial](/docs/tutorials/security/ns-level-pss).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To apply Pod Security Standards to specific namespaces, refer to [Apply Pod Security Standards at the namespace level](/docs/tutorials/security/ns-level-pss).
```

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

> 

Reviewer 2: nit: I'd tell readers that they need either Docker or Podman to practice this.

- [KinD](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/#installation)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)

## Choose the right Pod Security Standard to apply

[Pod Security Admission](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/)
lets you apply built-in [Pod Security Standards](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/)
with the following modes: `enforce`, `audit`, and `warn`.

To gather information that helps you to choose the Pod Security Standards
that are most appropriate for your configuration, do the following:

1. Create a cluster with no Pod Security Standards applied:

    ```shell
    kind create cluster --name psa-wo-cluster-pss --image kindest/node:latest
    ```
    The output is similar to this:
    ```
    Creating cluster "psa-wo-cluster-pss" ...
    ✓ Ensuring node image (kindest/node:latest) 🖼
    ✓ Preparing nodes 📦  
    ✓ Writing configuration 📜
    ✓ Starting control-plane 🕹️
    ✓ Installing CNI 🔌
    ✓ Installing StorageClass 💾
    Set kubectl context to "kind-psa-wo-cluster-pss"
    You can now use your cluster with:
    
    kubectl cluster-info --context kind-psa-wo-cluster-pss
    
    Thanks for using kind! 😊
    
    ```

> 2. Set the kubectl context to the new cluster:

Reviewer: nit, but specifying `1.` for every number in an ordered list (instead of 1 2 3 4 etc) in Markdown reduces future maintenance overhead, since list items can be added/removed without having to adjust the rest of the items in the list.

       Warning: kindnet-vzj42: non-default capabilities, host namespaces, hostPath volumes, allowPrivilegeEscalation != false, unrestricted capabilities, restricted volume types, runAsNonRoot != true, seccompProfile
       Warning: kube-proxy-m6hwf: host namespaces, hostPath volumes, privileged, allowPrivilegeEscalation != false, unrestricted capabilities, restricted volume types, runAsNonRoot != true, seccompProfile
       namespace/kube-system labeled
       Warning: existing pods in namespace "local-path-storage" violate the new PodSecurity enforce level "restricted:latest"
       Warning: local-path-provisioner-d6d9f7ffc-lw9lh: allowPrivilegeEscalation != false, unrestricted capabilities, runAsNonRoot != true, seccompProfile
       namespace/local-path-storage labeled
       ```

From the previous output, you'll notice that applying the `privileged` Pod Security Standard shows no warnings
for any namespaces. However, `baseline` and `restricted` standards both have
warnings, specifically in the `kube-system` namespace.

## Set modes, versions and standards

> In this tutorial, you apply the following Pod Security Standards to the `latest` version:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, you apply the following Pod Security Standards to the `latest` version:
```

  * `baseline` standard in `enforce` mode.
  * `restricted` standard in `warn` and `audit` mode.

The `baseline` Pod Security Standard provides a convenient
middle ground that allows keeping the exemption list short and prevents known
privilege escalations.

Additionally, to prevent pods from failing in `kube-system`, you'll exempt the namespace
from having Pod Security Standards applied.

When you implement Pod Security Admission in your own environment, consider the
following:

1. Based on the risk posture applied to a cluster, a stricter Pod Security
   Standard like `restricted` might be a better choice.
1. Exempting the `kube-system` namespace allows pods to run as

>    `privileged` in this namespace. We recommend that you apply strict RBAC

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   `privileged` in this namespace. For real world use, the Kubernetes project
   strongly recommends that you apply strict RBAC
```
Maybe mention that equivalent security measures are OK too?

   strongly recommends that you apply strict RBAC
   policies that limit access to `kube-system`, following the principle of least
   privilege.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To implement the preceding standards, do the following:
```

(Introduce these steps and fixes the numbering from continuing)

1. Create a configuration file that can be consumed by the Pod Security
Admission Controller to implement these Pod Security Standards:

    ```
    mkdir -p /tmp/pss
    cat <<EOF > /tmp/pss/cluster-level-pss.yaml 
    apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1
    kind: AdmissionConfiguration
    plugins:
    - name: PodSecurity
      configuration:
        apiVersion: pod-security.admission.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
        kind: PodSecurityConfiguration
        defaults:
          enforce: "baseline"
          enforce-version: "latest"
          audit: "restricted"
          audit-version: "latest"
          warn: "restricted"
          warn-version: "latest"
        exemptions:
          usernames: []
          runtimeClasses: []
          namespaces: [kube-system]
    EOF
    ```

> 4. Configure the API server to consume this file during cluster creation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Configure the API server to consume this file during cluster creation:
```

    ```
    cat <<EOF > /tmp/pss/cluster-config.yaml 
    kind: Cluster
    apiVersion: kind.x-k8s.io/v1alpha4
    nodes:
    - role: control-plane
      kubeadmConfigPatches:
      - |
        kind: ClusterConfiguration
        apiServer:
            extraArgs:
              admission-control-config-file: /etc/config/cluster-level-pss.yaml
            extraVolumes:
              - name: accf
                hostPath: /etc/config
                mountPath: /etc/config
                readOnly: false
                pathType: "DirectoryOrCreate"
      extraMounts:
      - hostPath: /tmp/pss
        containerPath: /etc/config
        # optional: if set, the mount is read-only.
        # default false
        readOnly: false
        # optional: if set, the mount needs SELinux relabeling.
        # default false
        selinuxRelabel: false
        # optional: set propagation mode (None, HostToContainer or Bidirectional)
        # see https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#mount-propagation
        # default None
        propagation: None
    EOF
    ```

    {{<note>}}

>     If you use Docker Desktop with KinD, the `/tmp`
>     directory is added as a Shared Directory under
>     **Preferences > Resources > File Sharing** on Mac OS.

Reviewer 2: nit:
```suggestion
    If you use Docker Desktop with KinD on macOS, you can
    add `/tmp` as a Shared Directory under the menu item
    **Preferences > Resources > File Sharing**.
```

    {{</note>}}

> 5. Create a cluster that uses Pod Security Admission to apply

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a cluster that uses Pod Security Admission to apply
```

   these Pod Security Standards:

   ```shell
    kind create cluster --name psa-with-cluster-pss --image kindest/node:latest --config /tmp/pss/cluster-config.yaml
   ```
   The output is similar to this:
   ```
    Creating cluster "psa-with-cluster-pss" ...
     ✓ Ensuring node image (kindest/node:latest) 🖼 
     ✓ Preparing nodes 📦  
     ✓ Writing configuration 📜 
     ✓ Starting control-plane 🕹️ 
     ✓ Installing CNI 🔌 
     ✓ Installing StorageClass 💾 
    Set kubectl context to "kind-psa-with-cluster-pss"
    You can now use your cluster with:
    
    kubectl cluster-info --context kind-psa-with-cluster-pss
    

>     Have a question, bug, or feature request? Let us know! https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/#community 🙂

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Have a question, bug, or feature request? Let us know! https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/#community 🙂
    ```
```

> 6. Point kubectl to the cluster 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Point kubectl to the cluster 
```

   ```shell
    kubectl cluster-info --context kind-psa-with-cluster-pss

>     Kubernetes control plane is running at https://127.0.0.1:63855

Reviewer: Separate output from the command

Author: Done. Thanks for picking this one.

    CoreDNS is running at https://127.0.0.1:63855/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/kube-dns:dns/proxy
    
    To further debug and diagnose cluster problems, use 'kubectl cluster-info dump'.
    ```

> 7. Create a Pod with minimal configuration in the default namespace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the following Pod specification for a minimal configuration in the default namespace:
```

    ```
    cat <<EOF > /tmp/pss/nginx-pod.yaml
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
      name: nginx
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: nginx
          name: nginx
          ports:
            - containerPort: 80
    EOF
    ```

> 8. Create Pod after pod security is enabled at cluster level:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the Pod in the cluster:
```

Reviewer: You don't need to say "after enabling" because that's what these steps did anyway

    
   ```shell
    kubectl apply -f /tmp/pss/nginx-pod.yaml
   ```
   The output is similar to this:
   ```
    Warning: would violate PodSecurity "restricted:latest": allowPrivilegeEscalation != false (container "nginx" must set securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation=false), unrestricted capabilities (container "nginx" must set securityContext.capabilities.drop=["ALL"]), runAsNonRoot != true (pod or container "nginx" must set securityContext.runAsNonRoot=true), seccompProfile (pod or container "nginx" must set securityContext.seccompProfile.type to "RuntimeDefault" or "Localhost")
    pod/nginx created
    ```
## Clean up

Run `kind delete cluster -name psa-with-cluster-pss` and 
`kind delete cluster -name psa-wo-cluster-pss` to delete the clusters you 
created.

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

- Run a 

>   [gist](https://gist.github.com/PushkarJ/9f7a0045f4bec31097bdd1e9db0f2f6e) 

Reviewer 2: Please move this from a gist into an example you commit (into `content/en/examples`), or omit the advice. It's OK to link to the example script on GitHub if that's useful to readers.
We definitely prefer not to recommend running 3rd party code from gists we don't control.

Author: done

[Pod Security Standards](docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/) when new pods are
created. This tutorial shows you how to enforce the `baseline` Pod Security 
Standard at the cluster level which applies a standard configuration 
to all namespaces in a cluster.

To apply Pod Security Standards to specific namespaces, refer to [Apply Pod Security Standards at the namespace level](/docs/tutorials/security/ns-level-pss).

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

Install the following on your workstation:

- [KinD](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/#installation)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)

## Choose the right Pod Security Standard to apply

[Pod Security Admission](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/)
lets you apply built-in [Pod Security Standards](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/)
with the following modes: `enforce`, `audit`, and `warn`.

To gather information that helps you to choose the Pod Security Standards
that are most appropriate for your configuration, do the following:

1. Create a cluster with no Pod Security Standards applied:

    ```shell

>     kind create cluster --name psa-wo-cluster-pss --image kindest/node:latest

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    kind create cluster --name psa-wo-cluster-pss --image kindest/node:v1.23.0
```

    ```
    The output is similar to this:
    ```
    Creating cluster "psa-wo-cluster-pss" ...

>     ✓ Ensuring node image (kindest/node:latest) 🖼

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ✓ Ensuring node image (kindest/node:v1.23.0) 🖼
```

        kind: ClusterConfiguration
        apiServer:
            extraArgs:
              admission-control-config-file: /etc/config/cluster-level-pss.yaml
            extraVolumes:
              - name: accf
                hostPath: /etc/config
                mountPath: /etc/config
                readOnly: false
                pathType: "DirectoryOrCreate"
      extraMounts:
      - hostPath: /tmp/pss
        containerPath: /etc/config
        # optional: if set, the mount is read-only.
        # default false
        readOnly: false
        # optional: if set, the mount needs SELinux relabeling.
        # default false
        selinuxRelabel: false
        # optional: set propagation mode (None, HostToContainer or Bidirectional)
        # see https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#mount-propagation
        # default None
        propagation: None
    EOF
    ```

    {{<note>}}
    If you use Docker Desktop with KinD on macOS, you can
    add `/tmp` as a Shared Directory under the menu item
    **Preferences > Resources > File Sharing**.
    {{</note>}}

1. Create a cluster that uses Pod Security Admission to apply
   these Pod Security Standards:

   ```shell

>     kind create cluster --name psa-with-cluster-pss --image kindest/node:latest --config /tmp/pss/cluster-config.yaml

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    kind create cluster --name psa-with-cluster-pss --image kindest/node:v1.23.0 --config /tmp/pss/cluster-config.yaml
```

   ```
   The output is similar to this:
   ```
    Creating cluster "psa-with-cluster-pss" ...

>      ✓ Ensuring node image (kindest/node:latest) 🖼 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     ✓ Ensuring node image (kindest/node:v1.23.0) 🖼 
```

   `privileged` in this namespace. For real world use, the Kubernetes project
   strongly recommends that you apply strict RBAC
   policies that limit access to `kube-system`, following the principle of least
   privilege.
   To implement the preceding standards, do the following:
1. Create a configuration file that can be consumed by the Pod Security
   Admission Controller to implement these Pod Security Standards:

    ```
    mkdir -p /tmp/pss
    cat <<EOF > /tmp/pss/cluster-level-pss.yaml 
    apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1
    kind: AdmissionConfiguration
    plugins:
    - name: PodSecurity
      configuration:
        apiVersion: pod-security.admission.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
        kind: PodSecurityConfiguration
        defaults:
          enforce: "baseline"
          enforce-version: "latest"
          audit: "restricted"
          audit-version: "latest"
          warn: "restricted"
          warn-version: "latest"
        exemptions:
          usernames: []
          runtimeClasses: []
          namespaces: [kube-system]
    EOF
    ```

1. Configure the API server to consume this file during cluster creation:

    ```

>     cat <<EOF > /tmp/pss/cluster-config.yaml 

Reviewer 4: is /tmp a good location for cluster confit files? I'm not sure what the typical permissions there are (or if files in /tmp are subject to automated cleanup/removal)
